In this lecture, we take a look at Java parameters.
So what is a parameter?
A parameter is a value that you can pass to a method.
You are not limited to a single parameter.
You can pass more than one parameter if that is what the method is expecting.
We set the parameter data type when we create the method e.g. the parameter might be a string or an
end.
Let's see an example.
So in Eclipse, I'm going to simply copy and paste the class in the last lecture hall.
Less L13 for lecture 13 and I'm going to call this parameters like so and I'm going to open up that
new class.
So I'm going to remove the code from the last lecture and I'm going to remove a few white spaces to.
So I am going to create a new method and I'm going to call this public static.
Void.
Get name and in brackets and then the usual braces like so.
But this time inside the brackets, I am going to provide two parameters.
So the first one is going to be a type string.
And I'm going to call it first name.
Then I'm going to add a comma and add a second string parameter.
Cold last night like so.
And inside the method I'm going to write sys dots out the print.
L.
N.
And inside those brackets, I am going to write in double quotes.
Hello.
My name is.
Then using the plus signs, I'm going to pass the first parameter value to first name.
Plus.
I'm going to do another double quote just to add a space in between the two values.
And then I'm going to provide last name like so.
So that's the method completed.
So I am going to now use in the main method.
I am going to call that method name.
So get a name.
But inside the brackets of get name.
Sorry.
So inside the brackets of get name, I'm going to pass two values.
So I'm going to call the first one.
John.
And the second one, Smith.
So if I say this now.
What do you think is going to happen there?
So in the console it's printed.
Hello.
My name is John Smith.
So what we did in in public static void main is that we called to get in a method which is this method
here.
And this method takes two parameters a string called first name and a string called last name.
And inside that method we're simply printing out.
Hello, my name is and pass in that first name parameter and then that last name parameter.
But when we called a method in in the main method up here.
When we call in get name we actually pass in the values.
Which will then be passed into these parameters.
So that's why.
John Smith has been printed in console.
So what would happen if I added another parameter here?
Such as Jones.
You'll see it as an error.
And if a hover over error, says the method, get name into it.
L13 is not applicable to the argument.
String.
So this method is not expect in free parameters because only two have been defined.
So if I was to swap those two values around.
So if I called this Smith.
And this one, John.
And save them and rerun it again.
You'll see the names have been switched around.
Because the the order for which you pass these parameters matter.
So the first parameter value would be with declaring in the method will be passed to the first parameter
and the second parameter will be passed to the second.
So I hope that's my sense.
And now you understand how parameters work.
Thanks for watching.